In this lecture, we take a look at flexible driver initialization.
So what is the current problem?
So we have to write code to nationalize the driver in each and individual class.
If we wanted to switch browser, for example, to use Firefox or Edge, then we'd need to update various
lines of code.
But what happens if we have hundreds of classes to update?
Is it feasible to update each individual class to use the browser of our choosing?
The answer is no.
And if we look at the code example below, it demonstrates just how much code we need within our classes
in order to just use the Chrome browser.
So how can we improve our current design?
We could adopt a similar global very variable solution by store in the browser type, for example Chrome,
Firefox or edge in the properties file.
We can use logic to determine which browser to initialize based on the browser value that is sent to
our test class.
We can do this using f l statements.
For example, I set a browser key and the value of Chrome in the properties file.
Chrome is then sent to the class.
And then the code itself checks to see what browser value has been sent and initialize is the correct
driver based on this value.
So let's implement this improvement.
So in Eclipse I am going to simply copy and paste the two files from the last lecture and I would update
the new versions based on what we're trying to do here.
So I'm going to copy log in Java and call this new 1l0 free underscore, log in and click.
Okay.
And for the Conflict Properties file, I'm going to copy it and paste call in this new one zero free
conflict properties and then click.
Okay.
So I am first going to open up the new config properties file where I have you are l equals the test
or home page.
So I'm going to add a new key value here.
So I'm going to call this browser and it's going to equal chrome.
And then I am going to save this file.
And then close it.
I'm then going to open up the new login Java class where I have the following code.
So this part here is what sets up and initializes the Chrome browser.
So I need a way to flexibly handle this based on the value that I set against the browser key from the
config dot properties file.
So at the moment it only handles the chrome driver.
So the first thing I'm going to do is delete that.
And this part of the code from last lecture handles the imports in of the data from the config dot properties
file.
So I am going to place that higher up in the code, so I'm going to cut it.
And I'm actually going to paste it.
Here.
So this handling of the data from the config policy file will be handled earlier.
This means that I can then use the content from that file to use some logic to initialize the browser
of my choosing.
So the first thing I need to do here is where I have copied and pasted the class.
In the last lecture you'll see that it refers to lecture zero to configure properties.
So I need to change that to zero free to use the new version.
So once that is done and we're importing the data from the config dot properties file, I need to flexibly
or dynamically handle the driver initialization code and I can do this by once again using the prop
object.
So I'm going to use an if statement.
And inside the if statement I'm going to use prop.
Dot get property.
And I'm going to get the property or the value using the key of browser.
And then after that, I am going to use a dot.
Equals.
And I need to provide a value here and I am going to set Chrome.
And outside of that, I am going to add open and close embraces.
So all this if statement is doing is using the object that we've set up here, it's going to go and
get the property of the key of browser and it checks to see if equals Chrome.
If it does, then we need to set the property to use the chrome driver.
So if you remember from our default package early on, we had Chrome Edge and Firefox demos.
So if I open up chrome demo, you'll see.
This is the set property that we use which points to the chrome driver XY file, which is in our resources
folder.
I then use web driver.
Driver equals new chrome driver to initialize the chrome driver object.
So if I was to copy these two lines and go back to the new class and paste it here.
So this will now check to see if the browser key equals Chrome.
And if it does, it will set the system property to use the chrome driver XY file.
And then it sets web driver.
Driver equals new Chrome driver.
But remember, as we've used or set a variable of driver here, we no longer need web driver.
So all we need to do is reference that driver variable to set it.
So that code now will handle Chrome.
So how about if we wanted to handle Firefox?
So what I can do here is use an else if statement.
So if.
I writes else.
If.
And then brackets like so I can quite simply copy.
This code here.
And place it in those brackets.
But instead of chrome I'm going to look for the value of Firefox.
And then I'm going to add open and close embraces.
And like we did for Chrome, if we open up the Firefox demo, you'll see that this set properties refers
to the gecko driver to XY.
And then when we initialize the driver object we use in the Firefox driver.
So again, I am going to copy these two lines and paste it within the LCF braces like so.
And like before we can get rid of web driver and reference the variable set at the top of the class.
So the final thing I can do here is use else.
So how the f l statement works is if it checks for this logic, else it will check for this logic.
Otherwise it will use this logic.
So for the LS parts, all I need to do is have an open and close embrace.
And this is where I need to handle the edge browser.
So if I open up a demo.
You'll see that this one points to the message driver.
And I can quite simply copy these two lines.
Paste it here and again, get rid of the Web driver reference.
So now that I expect to handle the driver initialization based on the convict property value that we
set here.
So I am going to close all these files now.
And demonstrate this to you.
But before I do, there is one error in our code.
And so I'm going to run this file so that you can think to see what the issue is.
So I am going to run the new class.
And you can see that it was skipped.
And there is an error here.
And it's saying no point pointer exception.
And if we look at the code is saying it's occurred on line 27, which is here.
So have a think of why that happened.
So the problem is that where we've handled the initialization of the driver.
We are trying to expand the window before the driver has been initialized.
So what this means is we actually need to move this.
After until the driver has been initialized.
So it's only after the chrome driver, Firefox driver or edge driver has been set.
Can we then expand the browser window?
So if I save this again and try running it one more time.
Let's see what happens.
And you can see this time the Chrome browser has opened and it's gone to the automation test store.
And it's managed to complete the test.
So how about if I change the conflict of properties?
And changed the browser value to Firefox and then saved it.
So now I'd expect this code to execute because the browser key is going to equal Firefox.
So let's give it a try.
And you can see this time the Firefox browser has opened up.
And if I close that and try it one more time.
But this time for edge.
And then save it.
And try one in that class one more time.
Let's see if the edge driver works.
And you can see Edge has opened up.
So this is really a great way of how we can dynamically code the initialization of the browser instance
by use and then if else if statement.
So now we control or we can control what browser to use.
Simply by updating this value in the conflict properties file.
I hope you have found this lecture useful.
And once again, thank you for watching.